In the Revelation presented
to the apostle John,
Jesus pointed ahead many centuries
to the time when Jehovah brings an end
to those who oppose his Kingdom.
At Revelation 11:18,
it speaks of such opposers
as “those ruining the earth.”
In its entirety, the verse says this
at Revelation 11:18:
“But the nations became wrathful,
“and your own wrath came,
“and the appointed time came
for the dead to be judged
“and to reward your slaves the prophets
and the holy ones
“and those fearing your name,
the small and the great,
“and to bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
This verse assures us
that Jehovah is going to stop
the ruining of the earth.
But is it only man’s pollution of the earth
and the misuse of its resources
that is being spoken of here?
Or is there more to it?
To answer those questions,
here are four main points
that we will consider:
What is “the earth”
as spoken of in God’s Word?
To what “ruining” of it
does Revelation 11:18 refer?
When will Jehovah act to stop it?
And what is the earth
that will endure forever?
So, to start, what is meant by “earth”?
To answer that question,
we’ll look at the planet
and the people.
Why do we include the people?
Because “earth,” like some other expressions
in God’s Word,
has more than one basic meaning.
Consider the word “heaven.”
“Heaven” has the sense
of that which is high, or lofty,
and it can refer to a number of things.
For example, at Genesis 27:28,
we read of Isaac’s blessing for Jacob.
He told him in part:
“May the true God give you
the dews of the heavens.”
“The dews of the heavens”
—here “heavens” has
the meaning of “literal sky,” true?
But now compare Daniel 4:26.
In this verse, we read
that Daniel interprets Nebuchadnezzar’s dream
regarding the great tree, and he says to him:
“Your kingdom will be yours again
“after you come to know that the heavens
are ruling.”
Clearly, this is not the literal sky, is it?
But it has reference
to Jehovah’s sovereignty.
Likewise, in the Bible,
the word “earth”
can have more than one meaning.
First, let’s look at the planet.
Unlike the planets
that have been named after false gods,
Genesis chapter 1 tells us
that Jehovah named this planet “Earth.”
As for the false labeling
of the other planets,
we can be certain that those disgusting names
will soon be gone.
But as for the earth, Jehovah leaves us
in no doubt about its future.
It was created to last forever.
Ecclesiastes 1:4 states
that although generations of people
at this time come and go,
“the earth,” it says
—that is, the planet—
“remains forever.”
Psalm 104:5 adds
that “it will not be moved from its place
forever and ever.”
So, then, the planet Earth
will never be destroyed.
God’s purpose for it will be fulfilled.
What is that purpose?
God’s purpose
is for the earth to be inhabited
by faithful humans
in perfection and happiness
with everlasting life.
That brings us to the people,
those for whom the earth was made.
You can hardly mention one
without the other, right?
For instance, many scriptures refer to people
when speaking of the earth.
Here are some examples.
Genesis 11:1 says: “Now all the earth
continued to be of one language.”
At Genesis 24:3,
Abraham refers to Jehovah as being
“the God of the earth,” obviously people.
Isaiah 49:13 says:
“Shout for joy, you heavens,
and rejoice, you earth.”
And Revelation 19:2 speaks of false religion
as “the great prostitute corrupted the earth
with her sexual immorality.”
Clearly, those verses refer to humans
who can speak,
who can worship, who can express joy,
and who can be corrupted
by sexual immorality.
Up to this point,
we’ve looked at the earth then as a planet,
we have reviewed God’s purpose for it,
and we have considered how the word “earth”
relates to the people on it.
Now let’s consider the question,
To what “ruining”
does Revelation 11:18 refer?
To the planet?
The people?
Or both?
First, the planet:
Jehovah hates to see the earth
being ruined today as it is.
And we can be certain
that he hates the pollution,
the damage to the earth’s climate,
the misuse of its resources,
and the devastation of human wars.
Jehovah cares for what he has made.
After making the earth,
he said “that it was good.”
We can read about it
in Genesis chapters 1 and 2.
Imagine Jehovah’s happiness!
This special planet was to be a gift.
Psalm 115:16 states
that “the earth he has given
to the sons of men.”
So, then, what about the people?
Does Jehovah’s disgust
at the ruining of the earth apply
to the ruining of mankind as well?
Yes!
We can see this from what is stated
at Genesis 6:11, 12.
In this setting, the world of Noah’s day
had become ruined in God’s eyes.
And as we read the verses,
look for the connection
between the earth and mankind.
It says at Genesis chapter 6,
starting in verse 11:
“But the earth had become ruined
in the sight of the true God,
“and the earth was filled with violence.
“Yes, God looked upon the earth,
and it was ruined;
all flesh had ruined its way on the earth.”
Do you see the connection?
Rather than speaking of just the planet,
the scriptures here link
the ruining of “all flesh,” or people,
with the ruining of the earth.
Likewise today, just as mankind
is harming the actual planet,
the world under Satan’s control
is also ruining all flesh.
In both ways, the earth is being ruined.
How so?
Along with false religion,
human society in general
is gradually corrupting everything
that Jehovah has set in place for mankind.
We see it
in their incessant nationalistic wars.
in their racial hatred and divisiveness.
We see it in their promoting of abortion.
We see it in their so-called gay marriage.
We see it in the gender blurring
that the world is promoting.
“You don’t have to be a man or a woman,”
they say.
“You can be whatever you feel like
or choose to be.”
Really?
What does Jehovah say about that?
At Deuteronomy 22:5,
he told the nation of Israel
that “a woman must not
put on the clothing of a man,
“nor should a man wear
the clothing of a woman.
“For anyone doing so is detestable
to Jehovah your God.”
If that is how the Creator feels
about the switching of clothing,
how much more detestable
he must view the world’s attempts
to blur the lines of gender
with false labeling!
Recently, the World Health Organization
adjusted its view of gender.
It now states that “there are many genders
existing on a spectrum from male to female.”
It added that “gender identity
“exists on a continuum
and that sex
is not limited to male or female.”
Again, really?
Talk about an attempt to tear apart
what Jehovah has made!
So, then, even government agencies
on a global scale are getting involved,
and they are critical of anyone
who does not adopt their warped view.
At Proverbs 19:3, it explains:
“It is a man’s own foolishness
that distorts his way,
and his heart
becomes enraged against Jehovah.”
And going back to marriage,
Jehovah instituted the arrangement
to be a permanent bond
between a man and a woman.
At Matthew 19:4, 5,
we read how Jesus emphasized this
while he was on the earth.
Quoting from Genesis 2:24, he said this:
“Have you not read that the one
who created them from the beginning
“made them male and female and said:
“‘For this reason a man
will leave his father and his mother
“‘and will stick to his wife,
and the two will be one flesh’?”
He “made them male and female . . . ,
and the two will be one flesh.”
Jehovah’s purpose for humans is clear.
But Satan’s world now says that marriage
can be between two men or two women.
Again, really?
We can be certain
that promoting this corrupt view
is part of Satan’s attempt to ruin mankind
—to make them so abhorrent to Jehovah
that he would abandon humans
and his purpose for mankind on the earth.
But that will never happen.
God’s purpose for mankind and their home
will be fulfilled.
Just like the disgusting names
of the false gods
that humans have given
to the literal planets,
the false labeling of humankind
and the immorality will not continue.
For his own name’s sake
and for those who love him,
Jehovah will “bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
Well, it’s one thing
to consider Jehovah’s view
on such matters among ourselves.
But what are we doing to help other people?
What are we doing to build respect
for Jehovah’s view of the earth,
Jehovah’s view of humankind,
and Jehovah’s purpose for their future?
Well, with a clear conscience,
we can confidently say
that we’ve “not held back”
in speaking the truth about such matters.
For example, here are some of the articles
on jw.org that honesthearted ones can read.
For instance,
“What Does the Bible Say About Abortion?,”
“Does the Bible Comment
on Same-Sex Marriages?,”
and “How Can I Explain the Bible’s View
of Homosexuality?”
We should be happy to have such tools
to help other people.
So, then, what is more important to Jehovah?
The literal planet or the people?
Both are highly valued,
and that is why both will endure forever.
But the people of the earth
are far more important.
Jehovah gave his Son as a ransom for mankind,
not for a planet.
John 3:16 says
that “God loved the world so much
“that he gave his only-begotten Son,
“so that every one exercising faith in him
“might not be destroyed
but have everlasting life.”
And of Jesus, God’s “master worker,”
Proverbs 8:31 quotes him as saying:
“I rejoiced over his habitable earth,
and I was especially fond
of the sons of men.”
Knowing this, what should we continue to do?
Well, we should kindly and respectfully
help others to see Jehovah’s view
while there is still time.
We must never
become “ashamed of the good news,”
for it’s not just good news about Paradise.
It’s also good news about Jehovah’s time
to set things right on earth again.
Parents with young children
should take courage
from this fact as they work hard
to protect their children
from Satan’s attempts
to ruin their minds and hearts
with immoral thoughts and false reasoning.
Thankfully, the end is coming quickly.
Please notice what is said
at Revelation chapter 14
and verses 6 and 7.
And as we read it,
look for what an angel includes
in the good news that he declares.
It says, in part—
Revelation chapter 14,
verses 6 and 7 says:
“He had everlasting good news to declare
to those who dwell on the earth,
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.
“He was saying in a loud voice:
“‘Fear God and give him glory,
“‘because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived,
“‘so worship the One
who made the heaven and the earth
and the sea and the springs of water.’”
So, then, what does the angel
include in his message,
in his good news that he is declaring?
“Fear God,” he said, “and give him glory,
because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived.”
For those who love what is right,
that is truly good news.
And we’re happy to include
this angelic message
in what we share with other people.
God’s Word assures us
at Acts 17:31
that Jehovah “has set a day
on which he purposes to judge
the inhabited earth in righteousness”
by means of his Son.
What a relief and peace
that will bring to those
who want to please Jehovah!
Well, in this talk,
we have examined what is meant
when the Bible speaks of “the earth,”
that is, the planet and the people
for whom it was made.
We have also considered the fact
that the earth
is being ruined in more ways
than just the corrupting of its environment
and the misuse of its resources.
It goes far beyond that, doesn’t it?
Satan and his world are also attempting
to ruin Jehovah’s human creation
in every way possible,
but they will fail.
Since Jehovah gave his Son
to save faithful humans
and to restore his purpose,
our next question is, When will it happen?
When will Jehovah bring to ruin
those ruining the earth?
Well, the answer to that question is soon,
very soon.
The ruining of mankind in their home
will not be allowed to go on.
Let no one be mistaken about it.
Jehovah is resolved.
“He is patient . . .
He does not desire anyone to be destroyed.”
But he is determined; his “day is coming.”
Second Peter 3:13 assures us
that “there are new heavens and a new earth
that we are awaiting
according to his promise.”
That promised “new earth”
is a new human society
that will worship and serve
the only true God forever.
Those who persist in ruining the earth
will not be a part of it.
At Matthew 19:28,
Jesus speaks of this coming change
as a time of “re-creation.”
The study note for that verse
says that re-creation
means “regeneration; [or] renewal.”
It then adds that the re-creation is
“the time when the rule of Christ
and his corulers
“will bring to the earth
a renewal of the perfect conditions
enjoyed by the first humans
before they sinned.”
That’s wonderful to think about!
The re-creation will set things straight
after a failed rebellion.
It will fulfill Jehovah’s purpose
for the earth.
So, then, what is “the earth”
that is being ruined today?
As we have discussed,
it is the planet
and the people being corrupted
by Satan’s world.
But what is “the earth”
that will endure forever?
First, the planet.
As we have read, the Scriptures are clear
that it will last forever.
Next, and most important,
the people are “the new earth,”
those for whom Jesus died
and who respond to the good news.
The re-creation is coming.
Jesus will not waste
a single day of the thousand years,
not one day of it.
He’s determined to honor Jehovah
and accomplish His purpose for the earth.
The future is not complicated.
Jehovah’s purpose is not hard to understand.
The coming time of re-creation
will bring about a rejuvenated earth,
a rejuvenated planet,
filled with perfect people
who love and serve Jehovah together.
That is the earth that will endure forever.